# SNOMED CT Automated Clinical Coding

This repository contains materials developed as part of a Master's Thesis titled **"Automated Clinical Coding of Medical Notes into the SNOMED CT Medical Terminology Structuring System."** This thesis was completed as part of the MSc in Fundamental Principles of Data Science program at the Universitat de Barcelona.

## Repository Structure

The repository is organized into four main folders:

- **`application/`**: 
  - Contains the script for vital signs detection and an example script that demonstrates this function. 
  - The examples correspond to those used in the written report.

- **`data/`**: 
  - This folder is where all notes and annotations data should be stored. 
  - Separated train-test data should be placed in the `train_test_data/` subfolder.

- **`methods/`**: 
  - Includes the two methods with the modifications detailed in the thesis.

- **`submissions/`**: 
  - This folder is for submission files containing predictions generated by the methods, which can then be used to calculate metrics.

Each folder contains further detailed information within.

## Other Files

In addition to the folders, the repository includes three key files:

- **`Data_exploration.ipynb`**: 
  - A Jupyter notebook that explores the initial notes and annotations data.

- **`metrics.py`**: 
  - A Python script that contains functions to calculate metrics such as 
  - macro-averaged intersection-over-union, F1-score, and macro-averaged F1-score.

- **`Metrics_calculation.ipynb`**: 
  - A Jupyter notebook that serves as an example of metric calculation using the data from the `submissions/` folder.


## Methods

The `methods/` folder contains the two modified methods:

1. **Method 1**: 
   - **Original Method**: The original source code for this method, along with instructions on how to run it and the necessary data, can be found at [this link]([https://example.com/method1](https://github.com/drivendataorg/snomed-ct-entity-linking/tree/main/1st%20Place)).
   - **Modifications**: The contribution includes adding the file `score_mixing.py` to the `submissions/` folder, and modifying `main.py`.

2. **Method 2**: 
   - **Original Method**: The original source code for this method, along with instructions on how to run it and the necessary data, can be found at [this link]([https://example.com/method2](https://github.com/drivendataorg/snomed-ct-entity-linking/tree/main/2nd%20Place)).
   - **Modifications**: The train-test process can be executed by running the `train_test.sh` bash script, which automatically divides the notes and annotations into train and test sets, and performs the training and testing processes.
